- [Narrator] Now let's start taking a look at the
Executor Framework Interfaces one by one,
and then we'll also do a demo for each one of them.
The first among them is the executor interface,
so that is the top most interface, and that
is going to help you execute a submitted task
with the single method execute.
It is very simple to actually try
to spawn a task with this execute method.
We'll see that in a minute.
It will help you submit runnable tasks,
so whenever you have created a thread
in the system you've said new thread,
and then you passed in the runnable instance,
and then you invoked the start method on it.
So instead of that, it is very simple to
do this job with the executor interface.
You just have to say executor dot execute and
parse in your runnable instance.
Let's quickly take a look at the demo.
Let's come back to the IDE.
And that was the test runnable class, right?
Where we created an instance of
the runnable using the lamda, and then
we created an instance of the thread class.
Right? And then over that we said start.
So there is no need to do all of this.
We can actually eliminate this and now
we can say, take a reference of the executor.
That is the interface.
Take a reference for it, and how
are you going to obtain the object of the executor?
There is an utility class called executors.
That's the one.
And this class has got a lot of factory
methods which return you executor objects.
Some I'm going to invoke one of them.
I'm going to say new single thread executor.
That is the one.
And once you do this, you just have
to go on the next line and say
executor dot execute.
And what do you parse?
You parse your runnable instance.
As simple as that.
Okay? So now let me run this code and check quickly.
The output is still going to be the same,
but this time there is a minor difference.
See what happened.
Because we are using the executor framework,
the name of the thread now is something like this.
Pool one, thread one.
So we spoke about the thing right?
That the executor framework creates thread pools for you.
That's how it names its threads.
Pool one, thread one. So on and so forth.
The other thing is, let's look in the code again.
We said new single thread executor, which
is exactly why it created a single thread in the system,
and it alone handled the task of reading that file.
That's it. That's how you can use executor.
But it doesn't have a lot of advantages,
and executor service is definitely
going to be a better interface.
Let's look at that.
The executor service interface is of course
a subinterface of the executor.
And, this is the one which is responsible
for managing the lifecycle of all individual threads,
and also of the executor.
The executor is also an object that you
are creating in the system.
So it will also have its own lifecycle.
So executor service interface is going
to not only manage the lifecycle of the
threads, but also for the executor.
Now, in the executor interface, you had the execute method.
In the executor service interface,
you have the submit method which is, of course,
an extension to the execute method.
And it accepts both, runnable and callable objects.
Not only does the executor service interface
give you a chance to submit an individual task,
but it also helps you execute a collection
of runnable or callable objects.
And, do you remember that we talked
about the executor framework feature,
which allows us to capture the output of a task?
Well, executor service is the one
which will allow you to do that.
It can help you return that future
object that you were talking about.
Additionally, it also helps you to
completely shut down the executor service, so that a clean
shut down is done when your application finally ends.
Now, we're going to take a look a demo for
executor service, and this is going to
be a long demo, so in the next video we
are first going to understand the use
case that we're going to implement,
and then we'll move on with the actual coding.